README.md, before:

# Getting Started with Git and the UniWebEnrollment Repository

This guide will walk you through installing Git, cloning the UniWebEnrollment repository, and setting up your environment to start working.

## Step 1: Install Git

### On Windows:
1. **Download Git:**
   - Visit the official Git website: [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/).
   - Click on the "Download for Windows" button.

2. **Run the Installer:**
   - Open the downloaded `.exe` file.
   - Follow the installation wizard:
     - Accept the license agreement.
     - Choose the default components (recommended).
     - Select "Git from the command line and also from 3rd-party software" when prompted.
     - Use the default options for the remaining steps.

3. **Verify Installation:**
   - Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.
   - Run the command:
     ```bash
     git --version
     ```
   - If Git is installed correctly, you'll see the version number.

### On Linux:
1. **Install Git:**
   - Open a terminal.
   - Run the following command based on your distribution:

     - **Debian/Ubuntu:**
       ```bash
       sudo apt update
       sudo apt install git
       ```

2. **Verify Installation:**
   - Run the command:
     ```bash
     git --version
     ```
   - If Git is installed correctly, you'll see the version number.

## Step 2: Clone the UniWebEnrollment Repository

1. **Navigate to Your Desired Directory:**
   - Open a terminal (Linux) or Command Prompt/PowerShell (Windows).
   - Use the `cd` command to navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository. For example:
     ```bash
     cd ~/Documents
     ```

2. **Clone the Repository:**
   - Run the following command to clone the UniWebEnrollment repository:
     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/kinseyboze/UniWebEnrollment.git
     ```

3. **Navigate into the Repository:**
   - Use the `cd` command to move into the cloned repository:
     ```bash
     cd UniWebEnrollment
     ```

## Step 3: Set Up Your Environment

1. **Create a New Branch:**
   - Before making changes, create a new branch to work on:
     ```bash
     git checkout -b your-branch-name
     ```
   - Replace `your-branch-name` with a descriptive name for your branch (e.g., `feature/add-login`).

2. **Make Changes:**
   - Open the repository in your preferred code editor (e.g., VS Code, Sublime Text).
   - Make the necessary changes to the code.

3. **Stage and Commit Changes:**
   - Stage your changes:
     ```bash
     git add .
     ```
   - Commit your changes with a descriptive message:
     ```bash
     git commit -m "Your commit message here"
     ```

4. **Push Changes to Remote:**
   - Push your branch to the remote repository:
     ```bash
     git push origin your-branch-name
     ```

5. **Create a Pull Request (Optional):**
   - If you're working in a team, go to the repository on GitHub and create a pull request for your branch.

## Step 4: Keep Your Repository Updated

1. **Fetch and Merge Changes:**
   - Before starting work, ensure your local repository is up to date:
     ```bash
     git checkout main
     git pull origin main
     ```

2. **Rebase Your Branch (Optional):**
   - If you're working on a feature branch, rebase it onto the latest main branch:
     ```bash
     git checkout your-branch-name
     git rebase main
     ```

## Additional Resources

- [Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)
- [GitHub Guides](https://guides.github.com/)

Commit message:

Adding token portion to README

README.md, after:

# Getting Started with Git and the UniWebEnrollment Repository

This guide will walk you through installing Git, cloning the UniWebEnrollment repository, and setting up your environment to start working.

## Step 1: Install Git

### On Windows:
1. **Download Git:**
   - Visit the official Git website: [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/).
   - Click on the "Download for Windows" button.

2. **Run the Installer:**
   - Open the downloaded `.exe` file.
   - Follow the installation wizard:
     - Accept the license agreement.
     - Choose the default components (recommended).
     - Select "Git from the command line and also from 3rd-party software" when prompted.
     - Use the default options for the remaining steps.

3. **Verify Installation:**
   - Open Command Prompt or PowerShell.
   - Run the command:
     ```bash
     git --version
     ```
   - If Git is installed correctly, you'll see the version number.

### On Linux:
1. **Install Git:**
   - Open a terminal.
   - Run the following command based on your distribution:

     - **Debian/Ubuntu:**
       ```bash
       sudo apt update
       sudo apt install git
       ```

2. **Verify Installation:**
   - Run the command:
     ```bash
     git --version
     ```
   - If Git is installed correctly, you'll see the version number.

## Step 2: Clone the UniWebEnrollment Repository

1. **Navigate to Your Desired Directory:**
   - Open a terminal (Linux) or Command Prompt/PowerShell (Windows).
   - Use the `cd` command to navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repository. For example:
     ```bash
     cd ~/Documents
     ```

2. **Clone the Repository:**
   - Run the following command to clone the UniWebEnrollment repository:
     ```bash
     git clone https://github.com/kinseyboze/UniWebEnrollment.git
     ```

3. **Navigate into the Repository:**
   - Use the `cd` command to move into the cloned repository:
     ```bash
     cd UniWebEnrollment
     ```

## Step 3: Set Up Your Environment

1. **Create a New Branch:**
   - Before making changes, create a new branch to work on:
     ```bash
     git checkout -b your-branch-name
     ```
   - Replace `your-branch-name` with a descriptive name for your branch (e.g., `feature/add-login`).

2. **Make Changes:**
   - Open the repository in your preferred code editor (e.g., VS Code, Sublime Text).
   - Make the necessary changes to the code.

3. **Stage and Commit Changes:**
   - Stage your changes:
     ```bash
     git add .
     ```
   - Commit your changes with a descriptive message:
     ```bash
     git commit -m "Your commit message here"
     ```

4. **Push Changes to Remote:**
   - Push your branch to the remote repository:
     ```bash
     git push origin your-branch-name
     ```

5. **Create a Pull Request (Optional):**
   - If you're working in a team, go to the repository on GitHub and create a pull request for your branch.

## Step 4: Keep Your Repository Updated

1. **Fetch and Merge Changes:**
   - Before starting work, ensure your local repository is up to date:
     ```bash
     git checkout main
     git pull origin main
     ```

2. **Merge Your Branch (Optional):**
   - If you're working on a feature branch, merge it onto the latest main branch:
     ```bash
     git checkout your-branch-name
     git merge main
     ```

## Additional Resources

- [Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc)
- [GitHub Guides](https://guides.github.com/)

---

## Authentication with GitHub (Using Personal Access Token)

### Steps to create a PAT:
1. Go to your GitHub account, then navigate to **Settings > Developer settings > Personal access tokens**.
2. Click on **Generate new token**.
3. Select the necessary scopes (for pushing to repositories, you’ll want at least **repo** access).
4. Click **Generate token**, then copy the token immediately (you won't be able to see it again).

### Steps to use the PAT:
1. When prompted for your GitHub password while pushing, paste the **Personal Access Token** instead of your GitHub password.
2. Git will authenticate using the token.
